Behörighet:För kurser på grundnivå inom Chalmers utbildningsprogram gäller samma behörighetskrav som till de(t) program där kursen ingår i programplanen.
      


                Syfte
	The course introduces the students to the role of data, information, and knowledge insoftware engineering. The course has two general themes: (1) fundamental conceptsrelated to data in software engineering; (2) basic principles of database systems as seenby users, application programmers and database administrators.
	
    
            Lärandemål (efter fullgjord kurs ska studenten kunna)
	Knowledge and understandingexplain the differences between data, information and knowledge,explain the concepts related to software metrology and information visualization,such as measure, measuring system, dashboard and indicator,explain basic concepts: relational data model, non-relational data model, entityrelationship model, relational database design, relational algebra and the databaselanguage SQL,Skills and abilitiesconstruct an algorithm for filtering and visualizing data based on a predefinedcriteria,manage the process of collecting and representing data in a database,build a data model (entity-relationship model),create database tables, and formulate database queries in SQL,experiment with data technologies such as big data and open data,Judgement and approachassess the quality of data and correctness of data models,evaluate the applicability of data management techniques for a given purpose. 
	
                Innehåll
	The course introduces concepts and techniques related to working with data,information and knowledge, although the focus is mostly on data and information.Techniques related to extraction, representation, modeling, access, and visualization ofdata are discussed. The course then introduces the role of databases and databasemanagement systems, covering topics such as algebra and the relational database,logical and physical design of databases, and the use of SQL. This includesprogramming in SQL, from the perspective of a user querying or modifying an existingdatabase, by a database designer, and by an application programmer invoking SQLfrom a host language. The course also highlights the difference between SQL andNoSQL and covers different data models such as XML, RDF, and JSON.
        	  
                Organisation
	The teaching consists of lectures, group work, exercises, as well as supervision inconnection to the exercises.
	
                Litteratur
	            Course literature to be announced the latest 8 weeks prior to the start of the course.
		
                       Examination inklusive obligatoriska moment
       	Written exam and assignments. 
	
    

    