Behörighet:För kurser på grundnivå inom Chalmers utbildningsprogram gäller samma behörighetskrav som till de(t) program där kursen ingår i programplanen.
      


            Kursspecifika förkunskaper
	To be eligible for this course, students must have completed 7,5 higher education credits in object oriented programming. 
	
                Syfte
	The course provides students with an introduction to the field of requirementsengineering and user experience.
	
    
            Lärandemål (efter fullgjord kurs ska studenten kunna)
	On successful completion of the course the student will be able to:Knowledge and understandingdescribe the process of requirements elicitation, evaluation, documentation,validation, and evolution,state techniques to acquire and model user demands,explain key techniques to account for usability in software products,Skills and abilitiesidentify and specify requirements by means of, for instance, scenario-based techniques or goal-oriented techniques,apply techniques to identify personas, scenarios and user stories,design and implement graphical user interfaces according to usability principles,Judgement and approachselect an appropriate technique to evaluate the usability of a software product,choose and motivate appropriate methods for involving users in the design process.
	
                Innehåll
	The course starts by providing a solid foundation by definingkey concepts like goals, requirements and specifications. It also presents the process ofidentifying and documenting the requirements of a software product. Emphasis is alsogiven to quality requirements.The second part of the course focuses on usability aspects. The course will focus onintegrating the requirements gathered in the first part with more design-orientedrequirements gathered as part of a user-centric design process (for example, viainterviews and the use of personas). The course also presents elements of visual designand information design, for instance, how to include aspects of user experience in thedesign of a software product. Further, the course touches upon methods of prototyping(for example, digital mockups) and presents some techniques to evaluate the usability ofa software product (for instance, via user studies). Finally, the course will providestudents with hands-on experience in designing and developing graphical user interface(GUI) programs.
        	  
                Organisation
	The teaching consists of lectures, group work, exercises, as well as supervision inconnection to the exercises.
	
                Litteratur
	            Course literature to be announced 8 weeks prior to the start of the course.
		
                       Examination inklusive obligatoriska moment
       	Written exam and assignments.  
	
    

    